---
title: "2025 Reading List"
date: 2025-02-15
layout: post
tags: personal reading
---

As my last post was about the [books I had read in 2024]({% post_url 2024-09-01-2024Reading-List %}), I thought this 2025 I would first post about what books I *plan* to read this year. In no particular order, here it goes:

1. ***The Intelligent Investor, Benjamin Graham***: Investing and stocks seems like such a complicated field at first that I wanted time-tested method for approaching stocks. Championed by Warren Buffet, Graham introduces *value investing*, in which you buy securities that are undervalued and have a high chance of generating returns. I'm around halfway through at the moment, and I love that the book is straightforward in its logic and builds on a very simple yet easy to forget idea: the hardest part of investing is controlling your own emotions.
> **Update**: Pretty thorough primer for somebody just starting out in investing. He argues the stock market in the short term is a voting machine, but a weighing machine in the long term. Thus, an intelligent investor should look for investments that have a higher chance of long-term success. Many technical details and terms went over my head, but his straightforward explanations made investing seem more approachable.

2. ***One Hundred Years of Solitude, Gabriel García Marquez***: One of my favorite books ever, this is a tale of seven generations of the Buendía family and the founding and development of Macondo. Full of memorable lines and characters, insights into loneliness and generational trauma, this novel is as enjoyable now as when I read it in high school for the first time. This novel made me realize Spanish can be a beautiful language, and it's due for a re-read.
> **Update**: In my mid-to-late twenties, I feel like I'm finally *understanding* this book. Although loneliness and solitude is the main uniting thread of several generations of the Buendia family, I finally understood that it manifests itself differently in each person. Before I had trouble understanding why characters acted the way they did, now I can better see that the character was punishing him/herself, or avoiding an uncomfortable truth, or retracting from the world because of being a misfit. I'll come back to it in a couple years and see what else I can learn from it. It's one of those books you should read at different points in your life and you'll take away different things.

3. ***Ficciones, Jorge Luis Borges***: One of the most famous short-story collections in Spanish. In high school I had to read a story by his called "*The Circular Ruins*", and I admit I did not understand it at all. However, being a bit older (and hopefully wiser) I figured I could try with his most famous work.
> **Update**: With good reason this collection of short stories is regarded as one of the most influential ever written. Borges not only subverts some genre expectations, many stories have a deep *mathematical* current running through them, which I found fascinating. For example, one of the best known stories has the universe being an infinite library, each floor filled with books of exactly the same dimensions and lengths covering all information within them. While reading it I was thinking back to my Formal Languages course in my CS undergrad, trying to come up with a proof that the library *could* or *couldn't* contain be infinite if each floor contained books with a finite number of symbols and equal dimensions. Definitely not on my literary bingo card, but worth a read, and it won't take up much time!

4. ***La Increíble y Triste Historia de la Cándida Eréndira y su Abuela Desalmada, Gabriel García Marquez***: I bought this book on recommendations from friends and family, and being a big fan of Marquez, I thought I would probably enjoy it. I read the first few pages, which told a short story about an angel who falls to Earth and nearby villagers have him as a tourist attraction which draws tons of people to their small town.

5. ***Mao: The Unknown Story, Jung Chang and Jon Halliday***: A biography on Mao which I saw at a family member's home and unashamedly asked to take it. I figured since I read a beefy biography on Chiang Kai Shek before, reading a biography of Mao would make for a nice complement. From my light skimming, it seems to be pretty technical on troop movements and battles during the war, and I'm especially curious about the post-war period.

6. ***Pedro Páramo, Juan Rulfo***: A story by a Mexican author with non-linear storytelling drawing heavily from Mexican folklore. That's really all I know about it but I have had it recommended.

It's my goal to read all of these novels by the end of the year, but I honestly have doubts given the length of some of these. I'll update this list with a more in-depth opinion on each one.
